Welcome back.
We got our tests to work and Google search right now is working pretty nicely.
I'm pretty happy with it.
And I think we can move on.
Let's create a nother script and perhaps a more realistic or a harder function than this to test.
So I'm going to just add a new file and call that script to dodge Yes and we definitely want to write
some tests for it.
But for now let's just write our function and what it's going to do.
Now one of the harder tests to write and something that you might be thinking of is a synchronous tests.
I mean right now you can see that with google search we can copy this with pretty much any function
and you might see why pure functions are so good to test.
I mean you're just testing function.
You're just adding some random inputs and making sure that the outputs are what they're expected.
Very nice and simple and they're all just synchronous nice tests but in real life we most likely have
fecche calls or API calls that are asynchronous.
How do we test for those.
Well in this video let's tackle that for this exercise.
I'm going to use an API they're really really like called Swaby And yeah that stands for the Star Wars
API.
It's free and it's awesome.
I recommend it in the other course as well.
So some people might be familiar with it but yeah it's great.
You can see here that you can request Planetes you can request people you can request starship's all
from Star Wars.
Yeah pretty awesome.
Using the Star Wars API you can see that this is the end point that we can hit to get the same response.
Let's create a nice little function for us to use that we can test now fetch in no it won't work because
if you remember fetch is something that's implemented by the browser and it's on the window object.
But in node there's no such thing as a window object.
So there's no window.
Fetch.
For that we need to install something called
node fetch and there's a few other libraries they can use.
You can do fetch calls from node but let's just stick with this one for now.
This way we can now have fetch in node and again we import it with the common japes way because imports
and exports are not available yet in node.
And then just import node fetch
all right to an end here.
Let's do a Konst get people from Star Wars and let's say this is going to receive the Fach.
Remember we're doing a bit of dependency injection here so that we can test them we can keep this nice
and easy to test as possible.
And here we can't say that we're going to return thuch.
And I know I know this is a little bit redundant because we could just not have an input and have fach
but it just shows I think dependency injection really well and this isn't something that you necessarily
always need to do but for this purposes I think it's a good way for you to get familiar with dependency
injection in here.
We're going to have the Star Wars API Let's go back to what they had
and let's copy this and say that we want to request the people API.
And if you remember we always need to do our classic Dadds Then
response and then run the Jaison method on the response.
And then finally we have our data which will be the people that it returns.
So let's say in here we're just going to return an object that has a count because if we go to people
over here because we want to get all the characters we get a count variable of all the characters in
the API so let's do that and we'll say count.
And actually this should be data on that count.
And then we'll do results that we'll just have the data Daut results which will have all the people
in an array and each person in an object.
All right let's save that.
And I want to make sure this works so we'll just do console dialog get people and pass in the first
function to it.
I'm going to save and let's just run node let me clear this for now.
And actually just because this is a synchronous and nicer way of doing this is just in here consol logging
the data the save and run NPM script to dodge.
Yes.
And we have to wait a bit but you see over here that all right we've got all the characters with count
87 and we got Luke Skywalker.
What else we got.
See Threepio R2-D2.
All the main cats.
Awesome.
This is working.
And you know what.
While we're at it just for fun since this is using a promise.
Let's also add the async weight version of the code
and let's just remove the call and just call say that get people is going to use the async await.
So that means in front of the function we're going to do a sync.
And now we can use the weight keyword so we can just say Konst get request equals await the first call.
And now we can say that the concert data again equals a weight
request dodgiest on.
And now we can remove the dog then and keep everything the way we had it.
Let me add the semi-colons and let's just make this smaller so you can see better
and we can move this
on this line you can decide for yourself what looks cleaner.
But let's test out to this as well to make sure that it works.
So get people and we'll add fetch going to save.
And Ron NPM Whoops not there.
Run in here NPM Ron.
No node script to dodge.
Yes well wait a bit and there you go.
Everything is working.
I don't know why I decided to show that in the test video but I'm sure somebody out there is going to
find this useful to compare promises and Eysenck a little bit of a tangent but let's get back on track
here.
Let's actually start writing tests for our async code.
Again the first thing we're going to do and I'm going to remove the get people and console logs from
here let's save
and I'm going to create a new file call it script to test dots.
Seamus
and one thing here we want to do a few things.
First we want to use the fetch function so we need the require
node fetch again because we have used dependency injection and we need the parameter fetch for the Get
people and then we also need the function from the swap API that returns the get people for analogise
say require a script to dodgier us or we don't need the G-S But remember because this isn't a node package
we need to actually give it the path.
All right so let's export the function let's just export both of these for now.
We'll say a module that exports and we export them in an object will say Get people.
And instead of doing get people get people again shorthand with E6 is to just to get fewer people and
get people promise which which is the same thing as get people semicolon get people property and value
property value.
All right so now within here we'll have the will have access to our functions both of them.
Let's take a break and in the next video we're going to finish up this test.
I'll see in that one by.